That the relations between our two countries are severely strained at this moment.
The causes that have brought about the present unfortunate deterioration are of course many and manifold.
But the fundamental cause, let me be frank, is American misattention of Japan's aims and aspirations.
I shall forego to explain at length our viewpoint, lest I should spoil your appetite.
Only let me observe a few words.
Contrary to impressions current in America and elsewhere, Japan is not waging an imperialist war of greed and aggression in China.
It is not the war of conquest or covetous ambitions.
We are engaged in a moral crusade.
You may, if you like, ladies and gentlemen, laugh or shrug your shoulders at me, but I am sure time will prove it.
Fifty years hence, or in lesser time, history will testify to it.
We are fighting not for destruction, but for construction.
We are endeavoring to initiate an era of enduring peace and unlimited prosperity based on justice, equity, and mutuality in Greater East Asia,
where we firmly believe we have a great mission as the civilizing and stabilizing force.
Thank you.